Project name: Datawarehousing architecture for a public 
university methodological process 

  Description:

Teachers are the main executioners of the methodological teaching 
process that guarantees the communities of academic years 
functioning, creating a huge volume of information during its 
daily activity that is stored in a distributed way in different 
formats and managed by different specialists simultaneously, as 
there is not such a way to integrate and process this information 
for analysis it is very difficult the decision making process 
based on it. This research answers this need through the design 
of a data warehousing architecture to offer the required 
knowledge to decision making, based on analysis of the 
information generated by teacher’s activities in the communities 
of academic years in the university scope. To achieve this goal, 
it’s proposed the use of Hefesto methodology v3, the data will be 
extracted from different sources and will be integrated using 
Pentaho Data Integration v7.1 over a datamart implemented in 
PostgreSQL v9.4, modeled as a constellation to reuse dimension 
tables and give a greater analytic capability over the indicators 
previously defined. The multidimensional cubes were designed 
using Pentaho Schema Workbench v3.11 and run over the OLAP server 
Mondrian v3.7 in Pentaho BA Server v6.1 where was visualized the 
information through the plugin Saiku Analytics v3.10. Finally, it 
was validated the proposal to facilitate the decision making 
process through the specialists’ criteria, with experience in 
communities of academic years, emphasizing the importance and 
novelty of the proposed architecture.

  Requirements: 

- Java SE 8 

- PostgreSQL 9.4 

- Pentaho Repository Database JDBC Drivers for PostgreSQL 

- Pentaho biserver-ce-6.1.0.1 

  Installation: 

  Linux: 

1. Create a user named 'pentaho' and assign all necessary reading 
and writing permissions. 

2. Create Linux directory structure 

<your home directory>/pentaho/server/pentaho-server 

<your home directory>/.pentaho 

3. Install Java, Postgres and the JDBC driver for Postgres. 

4. Prepare repository loading the 2019_01_06_BDRGCA_FULL.backup 
file in a PostgreSQL database with the name bdrgca. 

5. Download and unpack Pentaho biserver-ce-6.1.0.1. 

6. Unpack Pentaho Server installation file. 

7. Run the install.sh. file to unpack the installation file. The 
IZPak window appears. 

8. In the Select the installation path text box, browse to or 
enter the directory where you created the 
/pentaho/server/pentaho-server directory, and then click Next

9. After finishing the intaller, unzip the contents of the next 
files into the specified folders:


+--------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------+
|             File               | Unzip the Contents of the File to this Directory |
+--------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------+
+--------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------+
|     license-installer.zip      |                  pentaho/server                  |
+--------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------+
| jdbc-distribution-utility.zip  |                  pentaho/server                  |
+--------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------+
|       pentaho-data.zip         |          pentaho/server/pentaho-server           |
+--------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------+
|     pentaho-solutions.zip      |          pentaho/server/pentaho-server           |
+--------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------+


10. Set environment variables 

export PENTAHO_JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-8-oracle

  Windows:

1. Install Java, Postgres and JDBC driver.

2. Prepare repository loading the 2019_01_06_BDRGCA_FULL.backup 
  file in a PostgreSQL database with the name bdrgca.

3. Download and unpack installation files:


+------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
|                   Component                    |                Zip File                 |
+------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
+------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
|           Pentaho Analyzer Plugin              |      paz-plugin-ee-7.1.0-dist.zip       |
+------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
|           Dashboard Designer Plugin            |      pdd-plugin-ee-7.1.0-dist.zip       |
+------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
|       Pentaho Server Installation File         | pentaho-server-manual-ee-7.1.0-dist.zip |
+------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
|         Interactive Reporting Plugin           |      pir-plugin-ee-7.1.0-dist.zip       |
+------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| BA Operations Mart Files (which are optional)  | pentaho-operations-mart-7.1.0-dist.zip  |
+------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+


4. Unzip the Pentaho Pentaho Server Installation file and run 
installer.

5. Set the path of the PENTAHO_JAVA_HOME variable to the path of 
your Java installation, like in the following example:

• SET PENTAHO_JAVA_HOME=C:\Program Files\Java\jdk8

• Restart your application server. 4. Verify the variables have 
  been properly set.

  Usage:

Start the pentarho server with:

Linux: 
PENTAHO_INSTALLATION_FOLDER/pentaho-server/pentaho-solutions/system/kettle

Windows: 
PENTAHO_INSTALLATION_FOLDER\pentaho-server\pentaho-solutions\system\kettle

